docs: tutorial for bindings with Kafka (#2318)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/bindings-with-kafka.md

---
title: Bindings with Kafka
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how bindings with Kafka works and different ways to utilize bindings
weight: 150
---

## Introduction

> In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works. You will learn how to extend your AsyncAPI document with Protocol-specific information, such as how to use Kafka bindings. You will also learn about server bindings and channel bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how bindings with Kafka works. You will learn how to extend your AsyncAPI document with Protocol-specific information, such as how to specify kafka topic specific configurations or how to defined kafka message key content.
```

## Background Context

**What is Kafka**
Kafka is a messaging system that allows for the efficient handling and processing of data streams. 

**What is binding?**

> In the context of Kafka, "bindings" refer to the connections between Kafka and other systems or applications. There are several levels of bindings as described below:

Reviewer: i'm not sure that this is the correct definition maybe 
```suggestion
In the context of Kafka, "bindings" refer to the way the kafka ecosystem is configured. There are several levels of bindings as described below:
```

> <!---How many levels or types of binding are there exactly and where is the best place to place them in this tutorial?--->

Reviewer: add a ref to https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka

> <!---How many levels or types of binding are there exactly and where is the best place to place them in this tutorial?--->

Author: How many levels or types of bindings are there exactly? And where is the best place to place them in this tutorial? I considered putting the list under background context. However, I will need to show how these bindings work individually somewhere in the step-by-step section.

- Server Binding
- Channel binding

> - Operation Binding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Operation Bindings
- Message Bindings
```

Author: Hello @M3lkior,

Should I spell all three of them as "Bindings," or its just Bindings for Operations?

**How binding works in Kafka**
You must understand some essential parts of the process to understand how binding works. 

Kafka as a messaging system - Think of Kafka as a courier service - A messaging system that handles sending and receiving messages between applications. 

Producers and Consumers - Producers send packages (messages) to the courier service (Kafka), and consumers receive these packages.

Topics: Kafka organizes messages into categories. Just like a courier service, it will group items based on several cases, like how heavy the package is or the arrival date. It’s like having different boxes for different messages.

Bindings: Bindings are relevant when integrating Kafka with other programs or services. A binding is a specific agreement or configuration that governs how an application connects to and interacts with Kafka. It can include information such as:

- Which topics should an application read from or write to?

> - How should messages be formatted?

Reviewer: Those two parts are directly supported by asyncapi thanks to the specification

Author: Does this mean that the third one is not supported?

- What are the rules for interacting with various forms of data or messages?

> Bindings are vital because they ensure that applications and Kafka can communicate effectively with each other's message formats, protocols, and expectations, ensuring data flows securely and efficiently within a system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bindings are importants because they show indications about how Kafka components are configured.
```

Author: Thank you so much for taking the time to review this first draft. I appreciate the feedback and will have an updated version by the end of today.

---

> title: Bindings with Kafka

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Adding Kafka information using bindings
```

maybe?

- Which topics should an application read from or write to?
- How should messages be formatted?
- What are the rules for interacting with various forms of data or messages?

Bindings are important because they indicate how Kafka components are configured.

The diagram below shows how bindings with Kafka works. 

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Producer] -->|Sends Messages| B[Kafka Topic]
    B -->|Bindings| C{Kafka Broker}
    C -->|Delivers Messages| D[Consumer 1]
    C -->|Delivers Messages| E[Consumer 2]
    C -->|Delivers Messages| F[Consumer N]

    style B fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#fc6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
```

In the diagram above;

- The **producer** represents the system or service that transmits messages to Kafka.

- **Kafka Topic**: The name of the category or feed where messages are stored.

- **Bindings**: The connection or configuration between Kafka topics and the broker.

- **Kafka Broker**: The central node in charge of message distribution.

- **Consumer 1, 2, N**: Various systems or services that receive Kafka messages.

Now, let’s see how to use bindings with Kafka.

> ## Installation Guide

Reviewer 2: what installation you have in mind? bindings are extra properties one can add to AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer 3: No installation is needed in this tutorial, she already knows to update accordingly :)
